I want to study Computer Science, as I enjoy solving difficult problems, in interesting and efficient ways. I have experience in various sub-disciplines, including cyber security, robotics, and programming.
My interest in cyber security started aged 14, when I began reading about the topic. Due to this I became interested in computer security protocols and validating the security of communication, as discussed in the early chapters of "Security Engineering" by Ross Anderson, which led to me writing my HPQ research project about computer protocols, and how they are verified against attacks. For the past two years I have competed in a national cyber security competition "Cyber Discovery" - both years making it to the final stage, a residential camp for high-achieving competitors. In the first year, of 23,000 competitors, 170 were selected. This year, of 30,000, I was one of 180 selected to take a week-long course, in my case SANS 504 - incident management and hacking tools, and passed its associated GIAC examination, in the youngest cohort ever to do so. 
This interest in building robust systems segued into an interest in robotics, where careful consideration of edge cases is crucial. I led the software aspect of a school "Engineering Education Scheme" entry, building an automated tennis ball collecting robot, identifying the balls from webcam images. For this I received gold awards from both CREST and Industrial Cadets, and learned about object orientation, and the importance of systematic, thorough testing.
I received a distinction for a school research project, comparing machine learning with traditional analytical techniques for playing abstract games. I wrote my own first principles neural network, and compared its effectiveness at playing "tic-tac-toe" against my own implementations of minimax with alpha-beta pruning, and genetic algorithms. Furthermore, I have written other programs, including Markov chains to generate random human readable text, and recursive functions to play board games, like Boggle. (source code available at github.com/EdmundGoodman). 
I was awarded 1st place in the Caius college engineering essay contest, with an entry titled "Powering the UK's electricity supply - distributed systems to enhance the viability of renewable power". I attained a gold award for the AS physics challenge, and a commendation for the A2 physics Olympiad, after being put forward to take it a year early. I have also received a distinction in the "Bebras Computational Thinking Challenge Senior Category". Participating in these competitions has improved my logical reasoning, and ability to work under pressure.
I play the trumpet to a grade 8 standard, playing in a brass ensemble that was a finalist in a national chamber music competition, and sing as a bass to a grade 7 standard in school choirs. I was head chorister of Jesus College Choir, recording 3 CDs and going on 3 international tours, and am a Corporal in my school CCF section. Both roles have given me strong leadership abilities, which I developed by completing the highly competitive RAF Air Cadet Leadership Course, which only around 240 cadets from around the country graduate from each year. I am also a Maths Ambassador at my school, helping younger students with their maths.
Amongst books on the subject, I have read "The Mythical Man-Month", which has helped me understand software engineering, and complemented my practical leadership experience. I have also read "The New Turing Omnibus", which exposed me to new computational concepts, and offered a more mathematically rigorous style of explanation on various topics. I am currently reading "Godel, Escher, Bach", and am preparing to present a talk on formal systems at school. 
I very much look forward to studying computer science at university, where I hope to further pursue my love of the subject, discovering new areas of interest, and extending my current skillset.